" The whale , the whale ! Up helm , up helm ! Oh , all ye sweet powers 
of air , now hug me close ! Let not Starbuck die , if die he must , in a 
woman ' s fainting fit . Up helm , I say ye fools , the jaw ! the jaw ! Is 
this the end of all my bursting prayers ? all my life long 
fidelities ? Oh , Ahab , Ahab , lo , thy work . Steady ! helmsman , steady . 
Nay , nay ! Up helm again ! He turns to meet us ! Oh , his unappeasable 
brow drives on towards one , whose duty tells him he cannot depart . 
My God , stand by me now ! " 
" Stand not by me , but stand under me , whoever you are that will 
now help Stubb ; for Stubb , too , sticks here . I grin at thee , thou 
grinning whale ! Who ever helped Stubb , or kept Stubb awake , but 
Stubb ' s own unwinking eye ? And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a 
mattrass that is all too soft ; would it were stuffed with brushwood ! I 
grin at thee , thou grinning whale ! Look ye , sun , moon , and stars ! I 
call ye assassins of as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost . 
For all that , I would yet ring glasses with thee , would ye but hand 
the cup ! Oh , oh ! oh , oh ! thou grinning whale , but there ' ll be plenty 
of gulping soon ! Why fly ye not , O Ahab ! For me , off shoes and 
jacket to it ; let Stubb die in his drawers ! A most mouldy and over 
salted death , though ; cherries ! cherries ! cherries ! Oh , Flask , for 
one red cherry ere we die ! " 
" Cherries ? I only wish that we were where they grow . Oh , Stubb , I 
hope my poor mother ' s drawn my part pay ere this ; if not , few 
coppers will now come to her , for the voyage is up . " 
From the ship ' s bows , nearly all the seamen now hung inactive ; 
hammers , bits of plank , lances , and harpoons , mechanically retained in 
their hands , just as they had darted from their various employments ; 
all their enchanted eyes intent upon the whale , which from side to 
side strangely vibrating his predestinating head , sent a broad band of 
overspreading semicircular foam before him as he rushed . 
Retribution , swift vengeance , eternal malice were in his whole aspect , 
and spite of all that mortal man could do , the solid white buttress of 
his forehead smote the ship ' s starboard bow , till men and timbers 
reeled . Some fell flat upon their faces . Like dislodged trucks , the 
heads of the harpooneers aloft shook on their bull like necks . Through 
the breach , they heard the waters pour , as mountain torrents down a 
flume . 
" The ship ! The hearse ! the second hearse ! " cried Ahab from the 
boat ; " its wood could only be American ! " 
Diving beneath the settling ship , the whale ran quivering along 
its keel ; but turning under water , swiftly shot to the surface 
again , far off the other bow , but within a few yards of Ahab ' s boat , 
where , for a time , he lay quiescent . 
" I turn my body from the sun . What ho , Tashtego ! let me hear thy 
hammer . Oh ! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine ; thou uncracked 
keel ; and only god bullied hull ; thou firm deck , and haughty helm , and 
Pole pointed prow , death glorious ship ! must ye then perish , and 
without me ? Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest 
shipwrecked captains ? Oh , lonely death on lonely life ! Oh , now I 
feel my topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief . Ho , ho ! from all 
your furthest bounds , pour ye now in , ye bold billows of my whole 
foregone life , and top this one piled comber of my death ! Towards thee 
I roll , thou all destroying but unconquering whale ; to the last I 
grapple with thee ; from hell ' s heart I stab at thee ; for hate ' s sake I 
spit my last breath at thee . Sink all coffins and all hearses to one 
common pool ! and since neither can be mine , let me then tow to pieces , 
while still chasing thee , though tied to thee , thou damned whale ! 
Thus , I give up the spear ! " 
The harpoon was darted ; the stricken whale flew forward ; with 
igniting velocity the line ran through the grooves ; ran foul . Ahab 
stooped to clear it ; he did clear it ; but the flying turn caught him 
round the neck , and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their 
victim , he was shot out of the boat , ere the crew knew he was gone . 
Next instant , the heavy eye splice in the rope ' s final end flew out of 
the stark empty tub , knocked down an oarsman , and smiting the sea , 
disappeared in its depths . 
For an instant , the tranced boat ' s crew stood still ; then turned . 
" The ship ? Great God , where is the ship ? " Soon they through dim , 
bewildering mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom , as in the gaseous 
Fata Morgana ; only the uppermost masts out of water ; while fixed by 
infatuation , or fidelity , or fate , to their once lofty perches , the 
pagan harpooneers still maintained their sinking look outs on the sea . 
And now , concentric circles seized the lone boat itself , and all its 
crew , and each floating oar , and every lancepole , and spinning , 
animate and inanimate , all round and round in one vortex , carried 
the smallest chip of the Pequod out of sight . 
But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the 
sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast , leaving a few inches of the 
erect spar yet visible , together with long streaming yards of the 
flag , which calmly undulated , with ironical coincidings , over the 
destroying billows they almost touched ; at that instant , a red arm 
and a hammer hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air , in the act 
of nailing the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar . A 
sky hawk that tauntingly had followed the main truck downwards from 
its natural home among the stars , pecking at the flag , and incommoding 
Tashtego there ; this bird now chanced to intercept its broad 
fluttering wing between the hammer and the wood ; and simultaneously 
feeling that etherial thrill , the submerged savage beneath , in his 
death gasp , kept his hammer frozen there ; and so the bird of heaven , 
with archangelic shrieks , and his imperial beak thrust upwards , and 
his whole captive form folded in the flag of Ahab , went down with 
his ship , which , like Satan , would not sink to hell till she had 
dragged a living part of heaven along with her , and helmeted herself 
with it . 
Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf ; a sullen 
white surf beat against its steep sides ; then all collapsed , and the 
great shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years 
ago . 
