But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long , limber , 
portentous , black mass of something hovering in the centre of the 
picture over three blue , dim , perpendicular lines floating in a 
nameless yeast . A boggy , soggy , squitchy picture truly , enough to 
drive a nervous man distracted . Yet was there a sort of indefinite , 
half attained , unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you 
to it , till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out 
what that marvellous painting meant . Ever and anon a bright , but , 
alas , deceptive idea would dart you through . It ' s the Black Sea in 
a midnight gale . It ' s the unnatural combat of the four primal 
elements . It ' s a blasted heath . It ' s a Hyperborean winter scene . 
It ' s the breaking up of the icebound stream of Time . But last all 
these fancies yielded to that one portentous something in the 
picture ' s midst . That once found out , and all the rest were plain . But 
stop ; does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish ? even 
the great leviathan himself ? 
In fact , the artist ' s design seemed this : a final theory of my 
own , partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons 
with whom I conversed upon the subject . The picture represents a 
Cape Horner in a great hurricane ; the half foundered ship weltering 
there with its three dismantled masts alone visible ; and an 
exasperated whale , purposing to spring clean over the craft , is in the 
enormous act of impaling himself upon the three mast heads . 
The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a 
heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears . Some were thickly 
set with glittering teeth resembling ivory saws ; others were tufted 
with knots of human hair ; and one was sickle shaped , with a vast 
handle sweeping round like the segment made in the new mown grass by a 
long armed mower . You shuddered as you gazed , and wondered what 
monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have gone a 
death harvesting with such a hacking , horrifying implement . Mixed with 
these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken and 
deformed . Some were storied weapons . With this once long lance , now 
wildly elbowed , fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales 
between a sunrise and a sunset . And that harpoon so like a 
corkscrew now was flung in Javan seas , and run away with by a 
whale , years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco . The original 
iron entered nigh the tail , and , like a restless needle sojourning 
in the body of a man , travelled full forty feet , and at last was found 
imbedded in the hump . 
Crossing this dusky entry , and on through yon low arched way cut 
through what in old times must have been a great central chimney 
with fireplaces all round you enter the public room . A still 
duskier place is this , with such low ponderous beams above , and such 
old wrinkled planks beneath , that you would almost fancy you trod some 
old craft ' s cockpits , especially of such a howling night , when this 
corner anchored old ark rocked so furiously . On one side stood a long , 
low , shelf like table covered with cracked glass cases , filled with 
dusty rarities gathered from this wide world ' s remotest nooks . 
Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark looking 
den the bar a rude attempt at a right whale ' s head . Be that how it 
may , there stands the vast arched bone of the whale ' s jaw , so wide , 
a coach might almost drive beneath it . Within are shabby shelves , 
ranged round with old decanters , bottles , flasks ; and in those jaws of 
swift destruction , like another cursed Jonah ( by which name indeed 
they called him ) , bustles a little withered old man , who , for their 
money , dearly sells the sailors deliriums and death . 
