Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close 
flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; 
and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the 
multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s 
body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking 
at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting 
fountains that poured from the smitten rock . 
At last his spout grew thick , and with a frightful roll and vomit , 
he turned upon his back a corpse . 
While the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his 
flukes , and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing , 
some conversation ensued between them . 
" I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard , " 
said Stubb , not without some disgust at the thought of having to do 
with so ignoble a leviathan . 
" Wants with it ? " said Flask , coiling some spare line in the boat ' s 
bow , " did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm 
Whale ' s head hoisted on her starboard side , and at the same time a 
Right Whale ' s on the larboard ; did you never hear , Stubb , that that 
ship can never afterwards capsize ? " 
" Why not ? 
" I don ' t know , but I heard that gamboge ghost of a Fedallah saying 
so , and he seems to know all about ships ' charms . But I sometimes 
think he ' ll charm the ship to no good at last . I don ' t half like 
that chap , Stubb . Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort 
of carved into a snake ' s head , Stubb ? " 
" Sink him ! I never look at him at all ; but if ever I get a chance of 
a dark night , and he standing hard by the bulwarks , and no one by ; 
look down there , Flask " pointing into the sea with a peculiar 
motion of both hands " Aye , will I ! Flask , I take that Fedallah to 
be the devil in disguise . Do you believe that cock and bull story 
about his having been stowed away on board ship ? He ' s the devil , I 
say . The reason why you don ' t see his tail , is because he tucks it 
up out of sight ; he carries it coiled away in his pocket , I guess . 
Blast him ! now that I think of it , he ' s always wanting oakum to 
stuff into the toes of his boots . " 
" He sleeps in his boots , don ' t he ? He hasn ' t got any hammock ; but 
I ' ve seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging . " 
" No doubt , and it ' s because of his cursed tail ; he coils it down , do 
ye see , in the eye of the rigging . " 
" What ' s the old man have so much to do with him for ? " 
" Striking up a swap or a bargain , I suppose . " 
" Bargain ? about what ? " 
" Why , do ye see , the old man is hard bent after that White Whale , 
and the devil there is trying to come round him , and get him to swap 
away his silver watch , or his soul , or something of that sort , and 
then he ' ll surrender Moby Dick . " 
" Pooh ! Stubb , you are skylarking ; how can Fedallah do that ? " 
" I don ' t know , Flask , but the devil is a curious chap , and a 
wicked one , I tell ye . Why , they say as how he went a sauntering 
into the old flag ship once , switching his tail about devilish easy 
and gentlemanlike , and inquiring if the old governor was at home . 
Well , he was at home , and asked the devil what he wanted . The devil , 
switching his hoofs , up and says , ' I want John . ' ' What for ? ' says 
the old governor . ' What business is that of yours , ' says the devil , 
getting mad , ' I want to use him . ' ' Take him , ' says the governor 
and by the Lord , Flask , if the devil didn ' t give John the Asiatic 
cholera before he got through with him , I ' ll eat this whale in one 
mouthful . But look sharp ain ' t you all ready there ? Well , then , 
pull ahead , and let ' s get the whale alongside . " 
" I think I remember some such story as you were telling , " said 
Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their 
burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where . " 
" Three Spaniards ? Adventures of those three bloody minded 
soladoes ? Did ye read it there , Flask ? I guess ye did ? " 
" No : never saw such a book ; heard of it , though . But now , tell me , 
Stubb , do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now , 
was the same you say is now on board the Pequod ? " 
" Am I the same man that helped kill this whale ? Doesn ' t the devil 
live for ever ; who ever heard that the devil was dead ? Did you ever 
see any parson a wearing mourning for the devil ? And if the devil 
has a latch key to get into the admiral ' s cabin , don ' t you suppose 
he can crawl into a porthole ? Tell me that , Mr . Flask ? " 
