" Who ' s got some paregoric ? " said Stubb , " he has the stomach ache , 
I ' m afraid . Lord , think of having half an acre of stomach ache ! 
Adverse winds are holding mad Christmas in him , boys . It ' s the first 
foul wind ever knew to blow from astern ; but look , did ever whale 
yaw so before ? it must be , he ' s lost his tiller . " 
As an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a 
deck load of frightened horses , careens , buries , rolls , and wallows on 
her way ; so did this old whale heave his aged bulk , and now and then 
partly turning over on his cumbrous rib ends , expose the cause of 
his devious wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin . 
Whether he had lost that fin in battle , or had been born without it , 
it were hard to say . 
" Only wait a bit , old chap , and I ' ll give ye a sling for that 
wounded arm , " cried cruel Flask , pointing to the whale line near him . 
" Mind he don ' t sling thee with it , " cried Starbuck . " Give way , or 
the German will have him . " 
With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this 
one fish , because not only was he the largest , and therefore the 
most valuable whale , but he was nearest to them , and the other 
whales were going with such great velocity , moreover , as almost to 
defy pursuit for the time . At this juncture , the Pequod ' s keels had 
shot by the three German boats last lowered ; but from the great 
start he had had , Derick ' s boat still led the chase , though every 
moment neared by his foreign rivals . The only thing they feared , 
was , that from being already so nigh to his mark , he would be 
enabled to dart his iron before they could completely overtake and 
pass him . As for Derick , he seemed quite confident that this would 
be the case , and occasionally with a deriding gesture shook his 
lamp feeder at the other boats . 
" The ungracious and ungrateful dog ! " cried Starbuck ; " he mocks and 
dares me with the very poor box I filled for him not five minutes 
ago ! " Then in his old intense whisper " give way , greyhounds ! Dog 
to it ! " 
" I tell ye what it is , men " cried Stubb to his crew " it ' s 
against my religion to get mad ; but I ' d like to eat that villainous 
Yarman Pull won ' t ye ? Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye ? Do 
ye love brandy ? A hogshead of brandy , then , to the best man . Come , why 
don ' t some of ye burst a blood vessel ? Who ' s that been dropping an 
anchor overboard we don ' t budge an inch we ' re becalmed . Halloo , 
here ' s grass growing in the boat ' s bottom and by the Lord , the mast 
there ' s budding . This won ' t do , boys . Look at that Yarman ! The short 
and long of it is , men , will ye spit fire or not ? " 
" Oh ! see the suds he makes ! " cried Flask , dancing up and down " What 
a hump Oh , do pile on the beef lays like a log ! Oh ! my lads , do 
spring slap jacks and quahogs for supper , you know , my lads baked 
clams and muffins ho , do , do , spring , he ' s a hundred barreler don ' t 
lose him now don ' t oh , don ' t ! see that Yarman Oh , won ' t ye pull for 
your duff , my lads such a sog ! such a sogger ! Don ' t ye love sperm ? 
There goes three thousand dollars , men ! a bank ! a whole bank ! The 
bank of England ! Oh , do , do , do ! What ' s that Yarman about now ? " 
At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp feeder 
at the advancing boats , and also his oil can ; perhaps with the 
double view of retarding his rivals ' way , and at the same time 
economically accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the 
backward toss . 
" The unmannerly Dutch dogger ! " cried Stubb . " Pull now , men , like 
fifty thousand line of battle ship loads of red haired devils . What 
d ' ye say , Tashtego ; are you the man to snap your spine in 
two and twenty pieces for the honor of old Gayhead ? What d ' ye say ? " 
" I say , pull like god dam , " cried the Indian . 
Fiercely , but evenly incited by the taunts of the German , the 
Pequod ' s three boats now began ranging almost abreast ; and , so 
disposed , momentarily neared him . In that fine , loose , chivalrous 
attitude of the headsman when drawing near to his prey , the three 
mates stood up proudly , occasionally backing the after oarsman with an 
exhilarating cry of , " There she slides , now ! Hurrah for the 
white ash breeze ! Down with the Yarman ! Sail over him ! " 
But so decided an original start had Derick had , that spite of all 
their gallantry , he would have proved the victor in this race , had not 
a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the 
blade of his midship oarsman . While this clumsy lubber was striving to 
free his white ash , and while , in consequence , Derick ' s boat was 
nigh to capsizing , and he thundering away at his men in a mighty 
rage ; that was a good time for Starbuck , Stubb , and Flask . With a 
shout , they took a mortal start forwards , and slantingly ranged up 
on the German ' s quarter . An instant more , and all four boats were 
diagonically in the whale ' s immediate wake , while stretching from 
them , on both sides , was the foaming swell that he made . 
It was a terrific , most pitiable , and maddening sight . The whale was 
now going head out , and sending his spout before him in a continual 
tormented jet ; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of 
fright . Now to this hand , now to that , he yawed in his faltering 
flight , and still at every billow that he broke , he spasmodically sank 
in the sea , or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin . So 
have I seen a bird with clipped wing , making affrighted broken 
circle in the air , vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks . 
But the bird has a voice , and with plaintive cries will make known her 
fear ; but the fear of this vast dumb brute of the sea , was chained 
up and enchanted in him ; he had no voice , save that choking 
respiration through his spiracle , and this made the sight of him 
unspeakably pitiable ; while still , in his amazing bulk , portcullis 
jaw , and omnipotent tail , there was enough to appal the stoutest man 
who so pitied .
