" Well , then , my Bouton de Rose bud , have you seen the White Whale ? " 
" What whale ? " 
" The White Whale a Sperm Whale Moby Dick , have ye seen him ? 
" Never heard of such a whale . Cachalot Blanche ! White Whale no . " 
" Very good , then ; good bye now , and I ' ll call again in a minute . " 
Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod , and seeing Ahab 
leaning over the quarter deck rail awaiting his report , he moulded his 
two hands into a trumpet and shouted " No , Sir ! No ! " Upon which Ahab 
retired , and Stubb returned to the Frenchman . 
He now perceived that the Guernsey man , who had just got into the 
chains , and was using a cutting spade , had slung his nose in a sort of 
bag . 
" What ' s the matter with your nose , there ? " said Stubb . " Broke it ? " 
" I wish it was broken , or that I didn ' t have any nose at all ! " 
answered the Guernsey man , who did not seem to relish the job he was 
at very much . " But what are you holding yours for ? " 
" Oh , nothing ! It ' s a wax nose ; I have to hold it on . Fine day , ain ' t 
it ? Air rather gardenny , I should say ; throw us a bunch of posies , 
will ye , Bouton de Rose ? " 
" What in the devil ' s name do you want here ? " roared the Guernseyman , 
flying into a sudden passion . 
" Oh ! keep cool cool ? yes , that ' s the word ! why don ' t you pack those 
whales in ice while you ' re working at ' em ? But joking aside , though ; 
do you know , Rose bud , that it ' s all nonsense trying to get any oil 
out of such whales ? As for that dried up one , there , he hasn ' t a 
gill in his whole carcase . " 
" I know that well enough ; but , d ' ye see , the Captain here won ' t 
believe it ; this is his first voyage ; he was a Cologne manufacturer 
before . But come aboard , and mayhap he ' ll believe you , if he won ' t me ; 
and so I ' ll get out of this dirty scrape . " 
" Anything to oblige ye , my sweet and pleasant fellow , " rejoined 
Stubb , and with that he soon mounted to the deck . There a queer 
scene presented itself . The sailors , in tasselled caps of red worsted , 
were getting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales . But they 
worked rather slow and talked very fast , and seemed in anything but 
a good humor . All their noses upwardly projected from their faces like 
so many jibbooms . Now and then pairs of them would drop their work , 
and run up to the mast head to get some fresh air . Some thinking 
they would catch the plague , dipped oakum in coal tar , and at 
intervals held it to their nostrils . Others having broken the stems of 
their pipes almost short off at the bowl , were vigorously puffing 
tobacco smoke , so that it constantly filled their olfactories . 
Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding 
from the Captain ' s round house abaft ; and looking in that direction 
saw a fiery face thrust from behind the door , which was held ajar from 
within . This was the tormented surgeon , who , after in vain 
remonstrating against the proceedings of the day , had betaken 
himself to the Captain ' s round house ( cabinet he called it ) to avoid 
the pest ; but still , could not help yelling out his entreaties and 
indignations at times . 
Marking all this , Stubb argued well for his scheme , and turning to 
the Guernsey man had a little chat with him , during which the stranger 
mate expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited 
ignoramus , who had brought them all into so unsavory and 
unprofitable a pickle . Sounding him carefully , Stubb further perceived 
that the Guernsey man had not the slightest suspicion concerning the 
ambergris . He therefore held his peace on that head , but otherwise was 
quite frank and confidential with him , so that the two quickly 
concocted a little plan for both circumventing and satirizing the 
Captain , without his at all dreaming of distrusting their sincerity . 
According to this little plan of theirs , the Guernsey man , under cover 
of an interpreter ' s office , was to tell the Captain what he pleased , 
but as coming from Stubb ; and as for Stubb , he was to utter any 
nonsense that should come uppermost in him during the interview . 
By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin . He was a 
small and dark , but rather delicate looking man for a sea captain , 
with large whiskers and moustache , however ; and wore a red cotton 
velvet vest with watch seals at his side . To this gentleman , Stubb was 
now politely introduced by the Guernsey man , who at once 
ostentatiously put on the aspect of interpreting between them . S 
